<h2><a href=https://www.codewars.com/kata/6809e5a484e02d7d4cac146d/train/javascript target="_blank">Count number of Turing Machines with N rules</a></h2><h3>7 kyu</h3><p>A <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turing_machine" data-turbolinks="false" target="_blank">Turing Machine</a> is a mathematical model of computation describing an abstract machine that manipulates symbols on a strip of tape according to a table of rules. Despite the model's simplicity, it is capable of implementing any computer algorithm.</p><p>All the rule table tells us is: for each state:if the bit at the current position of the head is a 0 then we take some <code>action</code>. But if the bit at the current position of the head is a 1 then we take a different <code>action</code>.</p><p>An action is either <code>HALT</code> or a 3-part tuple:<code>[write 0 or 1, move Left or Right, go to state 1..N]</code></p><p>Here's an example of a program with just one state:</p><pre><code class="language-js">const states = {  "A": [    [1, "left", "A"],    [0, "right", "A"]  ]}</code></pre><p>Example of a 3-state rule table (in pseudo-code, this time):</p><pre><code>State 1:  0 -&gt; (1, L, 2)  1 -&gt; (0, R, 2)State 2:  0 -&gt; (1, L, 3)  1 -&gt; (0, R, 3)State 3:  0 -&gt; HALT  1 -&gt; (0, R, 1)</code></pre><h1 id="task">Task</h1><p>Implement <code>countRuleTables(n)</code> to return the number of unique rule-tables as a <code>BigInt</code>.</p><h3 id="input">Input</h3><p><code>n</code> — the number of states in the Turing Machine. Each state must define actions for both 0 and 1.</p><p>lower bound (inclusive): 1</p><p>upper bound (exclusive): 250 (may change based on feedback while kata is in beta)</p><h1 id="example">Example</h1><p>Here are all possible ways to create a Turing rule-table with a single state.</p><details><summary> CLICK TO OPEN </summary><pre><code class="language-js">const states = { "A": [  [0, R, "A"],  [0, R, "A"], ]};const states = { "A": [  [0, R, "A"],  [0, L, "A"], ]};const states = { "A": [  [0, R, "A"],  [1, R, "A"], ]};const states = { "A": [  [0, R, "A"],  [1, L, "A"], ]};const states = { "A": [  [0, L, "A"],  [0, R, "A"], ]};const states = { "A": [  [0, L, "A"],  [0, L, "A"], ]};const states = { "A": [  [0, L, "A"],  [1, R, "A"], ]};const states = { "A": [  [0, L, "A"],  [1, L, "A"], ]};const states = { "A": [  [1, R, "A"],  [0, R, "A"], ]};const states = { "A": [  [1, R, "A"],  [0, L, "A"], ]};const states = { "A": [  [1, R, "A"],  [1, R, "A"], ]};const states = { "A": [  [1, R, "A"],  [1, L, "A"], ]};const states = { "A": [  [1, L, "A"],  [0, R, "A"], ]};const states = { "A": [  [1, L, "A"],  [0, L, "A"], ]};const states = { "A": [  [1, L, "A"],  [1, R, "A"], ]};const states = { "A": [  [1, L, "A"],  [1, L, "A"], ]};const states = { "A": [  [0, R, "A"],  HALT, ]};const states = { "A": [  [0, L, "A"],  HALT, ]};const states = { "A": [  [1, R, "A"],  HALT, ]};const states = { "A": [  [1, L, "A"],  HALT, ]};const states = { "A": [  HALT,  [0, R, "A"], ]};const states = { "A": [  HALT,  [0, L, "A"], ]};const states = { "A": [  HALT,  [1, R, "A"], ]};const states = { "A": [  HALT,  [1, L, "A"], ]};const states = { "A": [  HALT,  HALT, ]};</code></pre></details><p>There are 25 unique rule tables. So <code>countRuleTables(1)</code> is <code>25</code>.</p><p>Enjoy!</p><p>p.s. This kata description goes deeper into explaining how to use Turing Machines than it needs to. I just thought a bit of background could motivate what would seem to be an arbitrary math problem. In addition, it was mentioned in the discourse that HALT is typically considered a separate state. But this kata does not consider it as separate. Just FYI.</p>